I had not been long in Hertfordshire before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his own.
Do you not feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?
Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?
Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance.
To persuade him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment.
It ought to be good; it has been the work of many generations.
I have no wish of denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success.
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer.
I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
I certainly have not the talent which some people possess, of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.
I will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner.
And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?
But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
But with me, it is not so. Painful recollections will intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled.
My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me.
I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting.
I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these.
My sister, who is more than ten years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother’s nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and myself.
As for myself, it is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very different manner.
I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago.
Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane, while she was ill at Netherfield?
I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it.
Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride--where there is a real superiority of mind--pride will be always under good regulation.
He left Netherfield for London on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.
I assure you, madam, that she does not need such advice. She practises very constantly.
We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
I had narrowly observed her, during the two visits which I had lately made her here; and I was convinced of her affection.
I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen in the whole range of my acquaintance that are really accomplished.
My temper I dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the convenience of the world.
My excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr.
Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you only can tell.
I rather wished than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal.
Perhaps I should have judged better had I sought an introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers.
To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point.
Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘Had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.’
Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
I have been used to consider poetry as the _food_ of love.
My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure you.
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal, regard.
Detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your sister’s sentiments.
It taught me to hope, as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
There was one part, especially the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power of reading again.
I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.
Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule.
On the evening before my going to London, I made a confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago.
But it ought to be done; and if you will give me a sheet of paper it shall be done directly.
For though your accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition of it.
Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?
They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me to determine.
And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting!
You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go into the avenue.
A lady’s imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment.
But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world.
Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses.
It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to yours.
You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which I have never acknowledged.
Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part, that might offer consolation to such distress!
Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr. Collins first came to Hunsford.
It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast.
How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say.
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?
I have been walking in the grove some time, in the hope of meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?
But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character.
But I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed.
How soon any other wishes introduced themselves, I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an hour after I had seen you.
Hate you! I was angry, perhaps, at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction.
I am sorry, exceedingly sorry, that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
Regard for my sister’s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mrs.
There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.
I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent.
You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.
That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny.
You are too generous to trifle with me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed.
I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done.
As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught to correct my temper.
This is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you hold me!
I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in future.
The power of doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you.
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.
This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent my sister’s having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.
A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very ill.
I perceive no other alteration than her being rather tanned,--no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence. Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related. They were natural and just.
Undoubtedly, there is meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation.
Such I was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not owe you!