His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world.
Mrs. Bennet felt a strong resentment toward Mr. Darcy, wishing her husband had been present to "give him one of your set-downs."
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew.
Darcy will be just like him--just as affable to the poor.
After Wickham's account in Meryton, Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
Mr. Darcy was considered disagreeable and horrid by Mrs. Bennet.
Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character.
On slight acquaintance he is thought to be an ill-tempered man.
Elizabeth felt there was no one whose knowledge of a sister’s frailty would have mortified her so much as Mr. Darcy.
His words seemed to imply marriage. Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his thoughts?
Mr. Gardiner was surprised by Darcy’s attentiveness, stating that there was no necessity for such attention given the trivial nature of his acquaintance with Elizabeth.
Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is he?
Mrs. Bennet thought Darcy was tiresome for always coming to visit.
There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are lucky in having such a master.
Elizabeth, who knew her mother's rudeness to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame that she could hardly keep her seat.
To Elizabeth it appeared that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed.
Lady Catherine is concerned that Darcy’s sister could be “polluted” by the Bennet family connection.
Everybody was pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had known anything of Wickham's account.
Elizabeth realized Darcy was right about the behavior of her family.
There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will give him a good name.
Lady Catherine: The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their infancy, they have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of his mother, as well as of hers. While in their cradles we planned the union.
I have never liked him
Mr. Darcy’s character was to speak for itself.
Not all his large estate in Derbyshire could save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance.
His being so sure of succeeding was wrong, said she, and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment.
Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at you in his life! It is admirable!
Mrs. Bennet talked of Mrs. Darcy with delighted pride.
Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy.
At first, his belief in Jane’s insensibility to Bingley she instantly resolved to be false.
Mr. Darcy can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
Mrs. Gardiner believed Darcy's motivation to be partially that of helping Elizabeth.
Mrs. Reynolds had evidently great pleasure in talking of her master and his sister.
Mr. Darcy's feelings toward Elizabeth are influenced by her perceived social inferiority.
He was unworthy to be compared with his friend.
Mrs. Bennet referred to Mr. Darcy as "that disagreeable Mr. Darcy."
Elizabeth did not detect any enthusiasm from Darcy about the idea of his marrying Miss de Bourgh.
His general character excited respect.
They had nothing to accuse him of but pride.
Miss Bingley was persuaded that Darcy admired Elizabeth.
Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it.
Mrs. Gardiner noted Mr. Darcy had a pleasing look when he spoke, and something dignified about his countenance that would not give one an unfavorable idea of his heart.
Elizabeth knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her Ladyship than she could do.
He who, she had been persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance.
She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to him, she felt a real interest in his welfare.
Mrs. Bennet: "that tall, proud man"
Miss Bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr. Darcy’s progress through his book, as in reading her own.
Elizabeth felt her uncle and aunt had misunderstood Darcy’s character but refrained from correcting them.
Elizabeth assured her father of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
He had a very satirical eye.
Mr. Darcy improves on acquaintance.
Elizabeth was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of Lydia’s infamy somewhat better.
An union that must have been to the advantage of both: by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgment, information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received benefit of greater importance.
Elizabeth thought of Mr. Darcy’s civility and his wish for her to be acquainted with his sister.
Mrs. Collins could not understand Mr. Darcy's behavior.
Mrs. Gardiner should be sorry to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.
The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature.
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men.
In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever.
Mr. Bennet soon assured her that Mr. Darcy was rising every hour in his esteem.
Mr. Darcy is aware of and reacts to the rudeness of others, particularly in social situations.
Elizabeth's feelings towards him were at times widely different.
It was a well-known fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.
She had often heard him speak so affectionately of his sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling.
Mr. Darcy is seen as someone who can be easily influenced by a woman's charm and wit.
Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty; but she smiled too much.
Mr. Darcy's behaviour, so strikingly altered.
His manners are very different from his cousin’s.
It seemed to Elizabeth that Darcy had boasted of making Jane miserable by "saving" Bingley from a disadvantageous marriage.
Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards.
If he had been wavering before, as to what he should do, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity unblemished could make him.
At that instant she felt, that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for moments of such painful confusion.
She and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between Mr. Darcy and herself.
Miss Bingley believed Mr. Darcy neglected nothing that could add to the beauties of Pemberley.
In essentials, I believe, he is very much what he ever was.
Lady Catherine believes that a connection with Elizabeth would disgrace Darcy in the eyes of everybody.
Elizabeth could see his countenance expressed security for her acceptance to his proposal.
He listened to her with perfect indifference.
Mrs. Gardiner was visibly surprised at Darcy’s civility.
They could not be untouched by his politeness.
Wickham professed himself willing to see Darcy, but proved the coward in the end.
Mr. Darcy treated the mention of Mr. Wickham's misfortunes with contempt and ridicule.
Elizabeth’s astonishment grew at Darcy’s change in behaviour, speculating that it could not possibly be for her sake that his manners had softened.
Reynolds respect for Darcy is such that her estimation of Elizabeth rises simply on discovery that Darcy knows her.
None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.
Mr. Darcy’s pride and caprice were the cause of Jane’s suffering.
If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him at all.
Though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she moved again towards the gate.
The wife of Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have no cause to repine.
Mr. Darcy's pride is described as the worst kind of pride.
Even Mr. Darcy acknowledged that the partridges were remarkably well done.
Mr. Darcy has better means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor.
Mrs. Bennet: "Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must say that I hate the very sight of him."
His composure convinced her that all was safe.
I am sure _I_ know none so handsome.
Mrs. Gardiner thought Mr. Darcy could not have behaved in such a cruel way to Wickham.
Mr. Darcy’s pride would be wounded by his friend's connections not having importance.
What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago would now have been gladly and gratefully received!
Mr. Darcy does not yield easily, particularly without a strong rationale.
He has been accused of many faults at different times; but this is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did not do himself.
Elizabeth confessed that she loved Darcy better than Bingley.
Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing.
The good lady who showed them the house gave Mr. Darcy a most flaming character.
Mr. Darcy is excessively glad to find that George Wickham had taken himself out of the way.
Among his own connections he was esteemed and valued.
He is the best landlord, and the best master, that ever lived. Not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but themselves.
Darcy did not comment further on the country after Mrs. Bennet's remarks.
He was always the sweetest tempered, most generous-hearted boy in the world.
Mr. Darcy's pride and caprice were the cause of all that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer.
Mr. Darcy may, perhaps, have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a month’s ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter it.
He could not, in her mother’s presence, be what he was before her uncle and aunt.
Lady Catherine: From his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin.
Yes, very handsome.
If he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
Elizabeth was disappointed at Darcy's not speaking to her the week of Jane's proposal, and angry with herself for being so.
Mrs. Bennet, luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law, that she ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his opinion.
Mr. Darcy likes to have his own way very well.
His father was an excellent man.
He is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by him.
When Elizabeth remembered the style of his address, she was still full of indignation, until she considered how unjustly she had condemned and upbraided him.
Mr. Darcy’s indifference was considered as something to be laughed at by Mr. Bennet, but not by Elizabeth.
Mr. Darcy’s actions have caused lasting harm to Jane’s happiness.
Mrs. Philips, as well as her sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley’s good-humour encouraged.
Mr. Darcy bowed to corroborated the report of their being on the way to check on Jane's health.
He was discovered to be proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased.
Every line of his letter proved more clearly that his conduct, which she had believed infamous, was capable of a turn that made him entirely blameless.
Whatever can give his sister any pleasure, is sure to be done in a moment. There is nothing he would not do for her.
Mrs. Bennet hoped Elizabeth would not mind having Mr. Darcy all to herself.
His conduct was cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
There was no fault to find with him, as far as their acquaintance reached.
Lady Catherine: I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.
His walking with Elizabeth seemed like wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance.
Mr. Darcy is perceived as a man of gallantry and respect, particularly when interacting with Elizabeth.
Elizabeth regarded Mr. Darcy with an interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just, as what Jane felt for Bingley.
Mr. Darcy’s behaviour astonished and vexed Elizabeth.
Even Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother.
Had his actions been what Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world.
She was convinced that she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they should meet.
Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report of his having ten thousand a year.
Mr. Darcy sends the Gardiners all the love in the world that can be spared from me.
I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
Conjectures about his prensence at Lydia's wedding that best pleased her, as placing his conduct in the noblest light, still seemed most improbable.
His disappointed feelings became the object of compassion.
I am so pleased--so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall!
I do remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition must be dreadful.
Elizabeth was amazed that Mr. Darcy believed any apology to be in his power.
Everybody says that he is eat up with pride.
The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man.
The justice of Mr. Darcy’s charge regarding her family’s impropriety struck Elizabeth too forcibly for denial.
Mr. Darcy’s pride was partly governed by his desire to retain Mr. Bingley for his sister.
Mr. Darcy's influence is the primary reason for Jane's unhappiness.
Mr. Darcy was considered fastidious in his taste for dance partners.
Proud and repulsive as were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their acquaintance—an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his ways—seen anything that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust—anything that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits.
Elizabeth believed that during their dance it would be greater punishment to force Darcy to speak than to remain silent.
The testimony so highly in his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light, had produced a friendlier nature in her towards him.
She was proud of him,--proud that in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better of himself.
Darcy was overflowing with admiration.
Mr. Darcy's pride would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend’s connections than from their want of sense.
Mrs. Gardiner noted that there was something stately about Darcy, but she didn’t find it unbecoming.
He is certainly a good brother.
Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in anything.
Mr. Darcy’s conduct does not suit Elizabeth’s feelings.
His affection was proved to have been sincere.
It was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
Elizabeth concluded that Darcy’s actions were the work of his brotherly desire for Miss Darcy to be acquainted with her, and it reassured her that his resentment hadn’t caused him to think ill of her.
The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire. Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
Mr. Darcy enjoys the power of doing what he likes.
His attachment excited gratitude.
Darcy was haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting.
She envied everyone to whom he spoke.
The ladies declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley.
His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, everything to him.
“I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said Mr. Bennet. “Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well as Jane’s.”
Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!
Elizabeth: “I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such a way.”
Darcy was continually giving offence.
Lady Catherine wants Mr. Darcy to marry her daughter.
Mrs. Bennet fancied she had gained a complete victory over Mr. Darcy.
His manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity.
He was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening.
The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in Meryton, to attempt to place him in an amiable light.
Miss Bingley thought Mr. Darcy would not wish to see his sister make such an exhibition.
Elizabeth had no fear of the news spreading farther through Mr. Darcy's means. There were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended.
Mr. Darcy is seen as someone who expects the highest standards of conviction and deliberation.
One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has a right to be proud.
You will not find him favourably spoken of by anyone.
Mrs. Gardiner assumed Mr. Darcy was a liberal master, and that, in the eye of a servant, comprehended every virtue.
Jane was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the unhappiness which her sister’s refusal must have given him.
Mr. Darcy looked at Elizabeth a great deal, but the expression was disputable.
Seriously, however, she felt tolerably persuaded that Bingley and Jane's engagement must have taken place with Darcy's concurrence.
It was acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
They stood a little aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face.
She was steadfastly persuaded that he could have no explanation to give which a just sense of shame would not conceal.
It was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family where, in addition to all other objections, there was an alliance with the man whom he so justly scorned.
They were all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
Elizabeth felt gratified by Darcy’s actions, interpreting the civility as a compliment for herself.
His pride does not offend me so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it.
His account of the objections to the match made Elizabeth too angry to wish to do him justice.
Elizabeth felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy’s objections; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
Mr. Darcy was described as exceedingly handsome and conceited.
Mr. Darcy would not suffer Bingley to call on Jane in such a part of London.
Bingley had the firmest reliance on Darcy’s regard, and the highest opinion of his judgment.
The respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some time ceased to be repugnant to her feelings.
Mr. Bennet becomes convinced Mr. Darcy deserves Elizabeth.
Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well.
I have never had a cross word from him in my life, and I have known him ever since he was four years old.
Mr. Darcy is the judge of Mr. Bingley’s inclination, and directs how his friend is to be happy.
How much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow!
Mr. Darcy suggests the limited variety of a country neighbourhood.
Darcy's improvement of manners had outlived one day.
He never said a great deal.
Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before. I hope he will overlook it.
Elizabeth felt that Darcy’s actions were a significant departure from his previous conduct.
Miss Bingley admired Mr. Darcy’s collection of books at Pemberley.
Elizabeth felt flattered and pleased by Darcy’s wish to introduce his sister to her, considering it a compliment of the highest kind.
Mr. Darcy never stirs without his friend Bingley.
It was evident that he was very much in love with her.
Darcy's astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
Mr. Darcy seemed to speak out of necessity, not choice.
Mr. Darcy had boundless influence over Mr. Bingley.
Elizabeth was delighted. In Darcy's home she had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
Everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
He was as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex.
Mr. Darcy’s behaviour was pleasing in every respect, as it had been in Derbyshire.
Mr. Darcy is very far from agreeing with the estimation of ladies' accomplishments in general.
Elizabeth was sorry that she had made Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister.
She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her.
There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings.
She was aware that no one liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a _dislike_ which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.
With his notions of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
Mr. Gardner left in perlexity at Darcy's not having communicated with Elizabeth. He believed they must be more intimately connected than they appeared.
Darcy inspired in Georgiana a respect which almost overcame her affection.
What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?
Darcy seemed to think the country was nothing at all.
It was not to be supposed that there were much affection in Mr. Darcy's interference.
Mr. Darcy was regarded as cold and dismissive, especially after his comment about Elizabeth.
Lady Catherine believed that Darcy’s attachment to Rosings was increasing.
Mr. Darcy’s gaze appeared earnest but sometimes seemed like an absence of mind.
The compliment to herself and her sister in Mr. Darcy’s letter was soothing but could not console her for the contempt attracted by the rest of her family.
Her astonishment at his coming--at his coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again, was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in Derbyshire.
Miss Bennet’s astonishment at Darcy's proposal was only lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly natural.
Mr. Darcy’s reserve and lack of proper consideration were the reasons his actions had been misunderstood.
Elizabeth: How could I ever think Lady Catherine like her nephew Darcy?
Mr. Darcy is always buying books.
Mrs. Bennet’s dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of her daughters.
Before learning the truth about Wickham, Mr. Darcy’s character sunk on every review of it.
Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own.
Mr. Darcy is perceived as someone who values logic and structure over yielding to persuasion without reason.
As a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people’s happiness were in his guardianship!
Mrs. Gardiner thought she recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.
Mr. Darcy is viewed as a man whose attention is often caught by Elizabeth’s personality and demeanor.
Mr. Darcy writes with study and deliberation.
Miss Bennet had nothing further to wish when convinced of Elizabeth's attachment to Darcy.
Lady Catherine observed that Darcy seemed to feel the departure from Rosings most acutely, even more than the previous year.
A man who has once been refused! How could she ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love?
Darcy was so desirous to please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now.
Darcy's actions, though kind, appeared to be influenced by his focus on Elizabeth rather than the family.
Elizabeth initially found Mr. Darcy’s explanation insufficient but, upon rereading, found his assertions credible.
She found his style to be all pride and insolence.
Implacable resentment _is_ a shade in Mr. Darcy.
As she read his account of Mr. Wickham, Elizabeth experienced astonishment, apprehension, and even horror.
Mr. Darcy could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of Elizabeth.
It is evident that you belong to the first circles.
Elizabeth replied with tears in her eyes, affirming her love for Mr. Darcy.
Elizabeth’s misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious attention!
Mr. Darcy cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned.
Mr. Darcy's expression changed from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
Lady Catherine talked of Mr. Darcy's coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and Elizabeth.
Mr. Darcy seldom appeared really animated.
Elizabeth saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine,--with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.
Friendship between a person capable of it and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley was incomprehensible.
Mr. Darcy was generous in imputing the blame to his mistaken pride.
I believe it does not often happen that he or any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts.
Elizabeth saw that Darcy was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded, as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side.
Elizabeth’s uncle and aunt, in their amazement, felt that the attention from Mr. Darcy could only be explained by a partiality for their niece.
Mr. Collins reported that Mr. Darcy appeared to be in very good health and in tolerable spirits after leaving Rosings.
Mr. Darcy is severe upon the arts which ladies sometimes use for captivation.
Elizabeth: "I do, I do like him. I love him. Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable."
Mr. Darcy's attention to Jane rekindled the admiration of her former lover.
Mr. Darcy, though without seeming to have any intention of speaking, approached them soon afterwards.
Elizabeth saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame.
Such a change in a man of so much pride excited not only astonishment but gratitude.
Mr. Darcy was considered high and self-important, walking around as if he fancied himself to be very great.
Elizabeth secretly formed a desperate resolution, possibly in response to Darcy's actions or demeanor.
Elizebeth saw that Darcy would consider Collins' interruption unwelcome.
Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were surprised by Darcy’s civility, pronouncing him to be infinitely superior to what they had expected.
Mr. Darcy seems very angry at being spoken to.
Darcy determined to be pleased.
He was moving that way; and fearful of its being Mr. Darcy, she was directly retreating.
Mr. Darcy’s conduct was seen as officious in separating Mr. Bingley and Jane.
Elizabeth could not bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy.
